# WLFW-Bobwhite-Density-Estimation-2018-2020
Effects of management practices on Northern Bobwhite Colinus virginianus density in privately owned working forests across the southeastern United States.

1. Obtaining rigorous baseline density estimates of species of conservation interest is key when assisting landowners to achieve management goals on private lands. Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations are declining throughout their range and despite being the focus of numerous private land conservation initiatives, baseline density estimates in privately owned pine forests are lacking. 2. We sought to address this knowledge gap across the southeastern United States by sampling 105 privately-owned pine stands throughout 2018 to 2020 using observer point count and autonomous recording unit (ARU) sampling data. Using Bayesian hierarchical models, we investigated the influence of stand management (brush management or applied fire) on bobwhite density, as well as four landscape-scale environmental variables. These included percentage cover of forest, herbaceous, agricultural, or burnt land area across six different spatial scales ranging from 500-m to 10-km around each pine stand. 3. Baseline density on sites with no management was estimated to be 2.24 coveys per 100 hectares (1.00 – 5.03, 95% BCI), with little impact of applying brush management, but a trend for a positive effect of fire management (0.19, -0.01 - 0.38 95% BCI). 4. This impact of fire was seen at both the stand-scale, correlated with an increase in acreage of applied prescribed burn management, and across the greater landscape area, correlated with cover of burnt area within a 2-km buffer around each site. 5. There were also strong positive influences of herbaceous vegetation and a strong negative influence of forest cover on bobwhite density. 6. Our sampling efforts fill an important information gap regarding densities throughout private lands in the southeastern United States. Our study also highlights the necessity of landscape scale planning for northern bobwhite conservation initiatives because the efficacy of conservation practices (i.e., prescribed fire and brush management) could be altered by the landscape surrounding the treated forest stand.
  
JAGS code for integrating point count and ARU data in a Bayesian hierarchical distance sampling framework across multiple spatial scales.
